Hello friends
In this video let us have an introduction to dynamic
programming
So what is dynamic programming? Dynamic programming is one best
method to solve the optimization problems in linear time
Let us see how to solve a problem in dynamic
programming
First, the problem will be divided into multiple subproblems
Secondly, solve the subproblems and store the result and
finally using the result of subproblems solve another big
subproblem and continuously follow this approach to solve
The large problem
There are two kinds of approach in dynamic programming
First is bottom-up approach and the second one is
top down approach
Let us understand them one by one in the bottom  up
approach the based solution will be taken first from
the bottom
The problem will be solved step by step like this
Finally, we will have the result of big problem in
the top down approach
The main problem is recursively broken down into
multiple sub problems
The breakdown will happen until the base case is reached
and then from there, the solution will be computed like
this
Let us understand it using the Nth Fibonacci example hear
the problem statement is given and we need to return
the
Nth Fibonacci number from the series the Fibonacci Series is
Fibonacci of 0 is 0
Fibonacci of 1 is 1
Fibonacci of 2 is sum of fib(0)
and fib(1) that is zero plus one equal
to 1
Fibonacci of 3 is sum of Fibonacci of one and
Fibonacci of two which is one plus one equals 2
And like this in general
Fibonacci of N is Fibonacci of N minus one plus
Fibonacci of N in minus two
Let us find the fourth Fibonacci number
using the bottom-up approach and top-down approach
Let us see the bottom-up approach first
As we have discussed in the bottom-up approach we
solved the problem
Step by step from the base case
Here
What is the base case Fibonacci of zero is zero
and Fibonacci of One is one
so right
Zero in fib(0)  and one in fib(1)
Let us solve one by one
What will be fib(2) it is fib(0)
plus fib(1)
That is the sum of previous 2  Fibonacci  numbers so
Fib of two equal to zero plus one that is
one
Now we have solved one subproblem that is fib(2)
using this
Let us solve the next subproblem
Fib(3)
It will be the summer fib(1) and fib(2)
that is one plus one which is to
now we have solved another subproblem that it's again
used
This result to compute the next problems result so fib(4)
will be the sum fib(2) and
fib(3)
So one plus two which is what three
Now we have found the 4th Fibonacci number which
is three
This is how in bottom up approach we solve a
big problem step by step from the base case
In eight step we solve one subproblem
And using that solution we will solve the next
subproblem in the next step
Let us understand how it is sold in the top-down approach
The general formula to find Nth Fibonacci Number is
Fib(n) equal to Fib(N-1) plus
Fib(N-2)
So to find fib(4)  the top-down approach
will call fib(4)
minus one that is 3 and fib(4) minus
two that is
two Similarly fib(3) will call fib(3)
minus one that is fib(2) and fib(3)
minus two that is fib(1) and this
fib(2) again calls fib(1) and fib(0)
since fib(0) and fib(1)
a bass cases the reclusive calls will be stopped
here and the right side fib(2) will again
call fib(1) and fib(0)
All the reclusive calls are now made
Now the result will be calculated like this
As we know fib(0) is 0 and fib(1)
is 1
So fib(2) will be zero plus one is one so
one will be returned to fib(2)
here
Fib(1)
is one and we have already calculated fib(2)
which is one so one plus one 2 will be returned
Fib(3)
Here again fib(0) and fib(1) will
be calculated that is zero plus one which is one
and it will be returned to fib(2)
Now we have fib(3) which is two and
fib(2) which is one so two plus one
three will be returned to fib(4) so fib(4) is
three
So this is how in the top-down approach the
Nth Fibonacci number will be found
recursively This approach is completely different from the
bottom-up approach in bottom-up approach from base case
we solve the large problems step by step in
Top-down
The large problem is broken down to recursively till
the base case and from there the solution will be
completed
If we observe the top-down approach solution we can
see that we have solved the subproblem fib(2)
twice
But in the bottom-up approach, we have sold each
subproblem exactly wants to avoid this kind of
recomputing the same subproblem in top-down approach
We should keep additional memory to store the results of
already solved sub problems
This is also called memorization
In the next video, we will understand how to use
memorization to Seoul the problems effectively in the top down